---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of Code&#58; Day 12
comments: true
tags: [100 Days of Code, Algorithms, Python]
---

Although I missed yesterday's coding session, I believe I have made up for it for today by implementing an algorithm that I have always found challenging to understand, merge sort.

<!--more-->

## Projects

#### Merge Sort

Merge sort is an efficient sorting algorithm comparatively to Insertion Sort, Bubble Sort, and Selection Sort. It's on the order of O(n*logn) and uses the divide-and-conquer paradigm to sort lists of integers.

Merge sort has always been a bit of a difficult algorithm to comprehend and I believe that stems from my inability to visually interpret recursive algorithms.

[Link](https://github.com/robgoyal/PersonalAlgosDS/blob/master/Algorithms/Sorting/Python/mergeSort.py) to source code.

## Challenges Faced

This algorithm was definitely a challenge for me but I was able to break down the problem by drawing out the recursive calls on paper and understand the flow of execution from a theoretical standpoint. The only challenge at that point was implementing the merge step for the algorithm. Implementing merge did become easier because I was able to break down the problem into chunks and solve it one step at a time.

## Future Week

For the next week, I'll be taking a small hiatus from working on projects and writing these blog posts. School is catching up with me and in the meantime, I need to figure out the next set of projects to work on as well as resources for learning the tools.
