---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of Code
comments: false
tags: [introduction, projects, 100 Days of Code]
---

Alexander Kallaway is the developer behind the 100 Days of Code movement. The 100 Days of Code has two basic steps associated with it. Step 1 is to code for 1 hour every day for 100 days. Step 2 is to publicly commit to coding for 1 hour every day. This blog will maintain as that public commitment.

<!--more-->

The 100 Days of Code challenge is incredibly useful to stick to write code in your spare time while making a public statement about what you are doing. It's a useful challenge to take on in light of the new year and a very realistic one as well. 1 hour for only 100 days versus an absurd goal like 3 hours each day for the entire year is a significant difference. With the amount of time wasted on social media and entertainment, finding one hour in a day shouldn't be too difficult. Along with the mental benefit of committing to and completing a goal, it'll also improve the technical skills that I still lack.

This will be the first time that I undertake this challenge and it'll also be the first round. For this round, some of the projects will be simple like creating data structures and algorithms, working on FreeCodeCamp projects, and creating simple web applications. For Round 2, I hope to have an arsenal of technical skills as well as confidence to tackle more complex problems and projects.

You can read more about the rules and details about the challenge [here](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/join-the-100daysofcode-556ddb4579e4).

The rules mention to publicly tweet your progress but since I don't have a twitter, I thought it'd be better to make use of my blog and create a blog post for each day about my progress. This will allow me to explain in more detail what I have done. It's also useful to log what I have achieved each day.

The format of the blog will be to discuss the project(s) that I am currently working on, any challenges that I faced while working on the project(s) and what I learned while coding.

Tomorrow will be Day 1 of this challenge.
