---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of Code&#58; Day 1
comments: true
tags: [100 Days of Code, Python]
---

This is Day 1 of the 100 Days of Code. Today, I spent most of my time TA'ing and fixing up my resume for future job positions. I did find some time to finish up a tiny project I was hoping to get done today, however, I ended up completing it in 30 min instead of the promised 1 hour.

<!--more-->

## Projects

#### Queue

Queue is part of a series of personal data structures and algorithms I've been working on just to expand my knowledge of that domain. These implementations are done in Python since it's the language I'm most comfortable with and want to learn about.

Queue is created as a class with it inheriting many methods from a linked list class I created before. This allows me to override many of the queue methods by just calling the inherited linked list method and therefore adapting to the DRY methodology.

The linked list class is far more complex but it handles a lot of the functionality that many of the other linear data structures would have.

[Link](https://github.com/robgoyal/PersonalAlgosDS/blob/master/DataStructures/Python/LList.py) to the Linked List Class source code.

[Link](https://github.com/robgoyal/PersonalAlgosDS/blob/master/DataStructures/Python/Queue.py) to the Queue Class source code.

## Challenges Faced

There were not too many challenges since the most complicated challenge was involved with the linked list class.

## Lessons Learned

It's interesting to see how classes inherit the parent clasess methods and attributes and how another layer of abstraction can be added to them. There weren't many new lessons learned but this is only Day 1. With 99 more days to go, there's undoubtedly so many lessons yet to be learned.
