---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of Code&#58; Day 11
comments: true
tags: [100 Days of Code, Algorithms, Python]
---

Similar to yesterday, today's project goal only took approximately 30 min. The project to complete today was an implementation of bubble sort.

<!--more-->

## Projects

#### Bubble Sort

I had recently watched the CS50 lecture regarding algorithms and they had gone over the basic process of bubble sort. I knew how to implement the algorithm quite quickly since I've done it before quite a while back as well as recently learning about it.

Bubble sort is a sorting algorithm where it essentially bubbles the largest value to the end of the list. As it traverses through the list or sequence, it performs a swap if any values are out of order. Once it comes across the largest value in that pass, it'll move that value to the end. On the next pass, it performs the same operations but with the second-largest value. This occurs until no swaps have occurred. This algorithm is on the order of O(n<sup>2</sup>) which is highly inefficient as the input size grows.

[Link](https://github.com/robgoyal/PersonalAlgosDS/blob/master/Algorithms/Sorting/Python/bubbleSort.py) to the source code.

## Challenges Faced and Lessons Learned

Today's project was relatively simple and not as challenging as some of the other projects. The first round of the 100 Days of Code is a test run for me to build discipline with programming, more assimilated with development, and to build the confidence of solving simpler problems. Once I being my next co-op and I have completed the first round, I will introduce projects with increased complexity and in various domains.
